---
title: Ahovira
description: Court wizard of Narin, and member of the Thalaric Council
tags: ["characters"]
---

Ahovira, a formidable and enigmatic figure, serves as the court wizard to the
Emperor of [Narin](/pages/Narin) and is also a member of the [Thalaric
Council](/pages/Thalarion). With the recent coronation of Vileminna I, Ahovira
has now served three reigning Narin emperors, a testament to her enduring
influence and unmatched expertise in the arcane arts. Her dual roles demand her
to divide her time between the imperial capital of Narinth and the city of
Thalarion.

## Personality

Ahovira is known for her composed and inscrutable demeanor. She carries an aura
of quiet authority, commanding respect without needing to assert it overtly.
Despite her calm exterior, she is a relentless seeker of knowledge, driven by an
insatiable curiosity and a desire to push the boundaries of magical
understanding. Her pursuit of arcane mastery is matched by her deep sense of
duty to both the Thalaric Council and the Narinth court.

## Rise to Power

Ahovira's journey to becoming the court wizard was marked by rigorous study and
numerous trials. Born in 874~IA~ into a wealthy and politically powerful family,
albeit with a modest magical heritage, she nonetheless displayed extraordinary
talent from a young age. Her early years were spent in intense study under
various tutors and masters, where she quickly outpaced her peers. Recognized for
her potential, she was eventually invited to work under Ilzalius, the previous
court wizard. Only a few years later in 901~IA~, Ilzalius announced his
retirement from the post, and strongly advised the Emperor to pick Ahovira as
his successor.

Ahovira was granted a seat on the Thalaric Council in 911~IA~, amidst Narin's
military conflicts with [Corin](/pages/Corin), [Illyria](/pages/Illyria), and
[Greade](/pages/Greade). As with most members of the Thalaric Council, the
circumstances by which Ahovira gained a council seat are kept secret, though
many suspect that the Emperor influenced the council's decision as a way of
keeping Thalarion from joining the conflicts on the opposing side.

## Dual Life & Public Perception

Balancing her responsibilities as a court wizard and a council member, Ahovira's
life is a constant interplay between political intrigue and scholarly endeavors.
In Narinth, she advises the Emperor on matters of state, using her magical
prowess to protect the empire and advance its interests. In Thalarion, she has
shown herself to be a responsible steward of the city and its people.

Despite the Emperor's unwavering faith in her, Ahovira's dual allegiances have
made her a contentious figure. Many in both Narinth and Thalarion view her with
suspicion, questioning her loyalty and intentions. Her commitment to serving two
masters has sparked rumors and speculation, casting a shadow over her otherwise
illustrious career. Yet, Ahovira remains undeterred, resolute in her mission to
bridge the realms of politics and magic for the greater good.

## Personal Pursuits and Interests

Outside of her official duties, Ahovira is a dedicated scholar with a particular
interest in ancient magical texts and forgotten lore. She is known to spend
countless hours in the vast libraries of Thalarion, unraveling the secrets of
bygone eras. Her personal quarters are filled with rare tomes and mystical
artifacts, each with a story that fuels her insatiable quest for knowledge.  As
a Human, Ahovira also believes strongly in the importance of nurturing the next
generation of magical talent, and never has less than five apprentices at a
time.