---
title: Alfheim
tags: ["locations"]
description: Frigid land of the Alfir, far to the south
mapMarkers:
- group: states
  pos: 393, 798
---

Alfheim, the land of the [Alfir](/pages/Alfir), is a realm of stark contrasts,
where survival in its harsh environment has forged a resilient and enigmatic
people. This southernmost land spends half the year blanketed in snow and ice,
with winters so severe that the sun barely rises above the horizon. In contrast,
the summers bring exceptionally long days and mild weather, transforming the
frozen landscape into a vibrant and lush environment. Despite these extremes,
the Alfir not only survive but thrive in their frozen forests. Their white
cities and towers, now mostly in ruins, still hold a haunting beauty for those
brave enough to seek them out.

# Geography and Climate

{{< map target=375,800 zoom=0.25 >}}

## Vast and Untamed

Alfheim occupies the southeastern tip of the continent, a region characterized
by its vast stretches of untouched taiga. The inland borders of Alfheim are
vaguely defined, extending from the frozen shores to the foothills that mark its
northern and eastern extents. This wild and untamed land is dominated by dense
forests, frozen rivers, and rugged terrain.

## Lake Sshan

One of Alfheim's most notable geographical features is Lake Sshan, the largest
lake on the continent. This frigid body of water is surrounded by the ruins of
the once-great Alfir empire, a testament to the grandeur that once was. The area
around Lake Sshan, though harsh and unforgiving, holds a mystical allure,
drawing adventurers and scholars alike to explore its icy depths and ancient
ruins.

## Seasonal Extremes

Alfheim's location so far south results in dramatic seasonal changes. During
winter, the sun rises for only a few hours each day, casting a pale light over
the frozen landscape. The extreme cold and lack of sunlight make survival
challenging, yet the Alfir have adapted remarkably well. In summer, the days
stretch on endlessly, and the weather becomes mild. Ice and snow retreat to the
higher elevations, and the forests come alive with a burst of activity and
growth.

# Culture

Contrary to the assumptions of many scholars, the Alfir are not a purely nomadic
people. While the great cities of their former empire have crumbled, many
permanent Alfir settlements still dot the landscape of Alfheim. During the
summer months, many Alfir embark on long hunting expeditions, a practice
essential for their survival and deeply embedded in their culture. These hunts
are not just a means of sustenance but also a time of bonding, storytelling, and
the passing down of ancient traditions. The Alfir's tendency to hide their
settlements and venture on these hunts has led many outsiders to underestimate
the complexity and richness of their culture.

The ruins of the Alfir's white cities and towers, scattered across Alfheim, are
a poignant reminder of their once-magnificent civilization. These ruins, often
shrouded in snow and ice, hold a mystical and haunting beauty. They serve as
silent witnesses to the Alfir's storied past, drawing those who seek to uncover
the secrets of this enigmatic people.