---
title: Alfir
tags: ['peoples']
---

The Alfir, a race of enigmatic humanoids, share a close kinship with the
[Einir](/pages/Einir). They are generally a head shorter than Humans, with more
slender builds, giving them a distinct and delicate appearance. Alfir have skin
tones that range from white or pale peach to light grey, and their hair is often
a light white or grey, with occasional shades of black or light jewel tones.
Their elongated, pointed ears and sharply angular facial features set them
apart, even more so than their Einir cousins.

## Lifespan and The Sundering

In ancient times, the Alfir enjoyed long lifespans, typically living between 500
and 600 years. This extended longevity allowed them to develop a deep and
profound connection to their environment and culture. However, the
[Sundering](/pages/Sundering) drastically altered their lifespans, reducing them
to a mere 170-200 years.  Despite this, the Alfir remain a resilient and proud
people, deeply connected to their heritage.

## Origins and Homeland

Before the Sundering, the Alfir once controlled a vast empire in the south,
extending their dominion beyond [Alfheim](/pages/Alfheim) to encompass much of
[Othalia](/pages/Othalia). This grand empire was a testament to their prowess in
both governance and magic. However, the Sundering had a profound impact on the
Alfir and their mighty empire soon crumbled, leaving deep scars on their
culture.

Today, most Alfir reside in the frozen southern realms, particularly in and
around the forests of Alfheim. These lands are known for their stark beauty and
harsh climate, shaping the Alfir into a hardy and resourceful people. The
Alfir's homeland is a place of ancient trees, snow-covered landscapes, and
hidden glades, where most Alfir live in smaller, loosely-governed and
isolationist communities.

## Insular Yet Adaptable

The culture of the Alfir tends to be insular, with a strong emphasis on
community and tradition. They are cautious in their interactions with outsiders,
often viewing other cultures with a mixture of curiosity and wariness. However,
it is not uncommon for individual Alfir to venture beyond their homeland,
seeking knowledge, adventure, or new experiences. These wanderers often bring
back fresh perspectives, enriching their communities while remaining deeply
rooted in their cultural heritage.