---
title: Alhamad
description: The shining city, capitol of Rygalta
tags: ["cities"]
---

Alhamad, the _Shining City_, was once a small trade town at the edge of the vast
deserts of [Rygalta](/pages/Rygalta).  It was known for its beautiful palm
trees, clear springs, and rich soil, which allowed its residents to grow crops
and trade with neighboring cities. As the city grew, so did its wealth and
influence.

After the previous Rygaltan capitol of _Arad'gul_ fell in the war against
[Naarel](/pages/Naarel), the King of Rygalta decided to relocate. The strategic
importance of Alhamad made it the perfect choice, and he poured his resources
into the city, building grand palaces, towering temples, and expansive markets
to show that even without Arad'gul, the Rygaltan monarchy was strong.

Over time, Alhamad became a hub of culture and commerce. Its residents were a
mix of nomadic desert tribes, wealthy merchants, and powerful nobles, all drawn
to the city by the promise of prosperity and the lure of its splendor. The city
was protected by a massive stone wall and a powerful army, ensuring its safety
and security.

Despite its greatness, Alhamad was not without its challenges. The desert was a
harsh and unforgiving environment, and the city was constantly threatened by
sandstorms, droughts, [Zagar](/pages/Zagar) raids from the south, and eventually
the war with [Xar](/pages/Xar). However, the investment of the royal family paid
off - Alhamad was resilient, and did not meet the same fate as ancient Arad'gul.

Today, Alhamad remains one of the most magnificent cities on the continent, a
shining example of the power and wealth of Rygalta. Its streets are lined with
shimmering mosaics, its markets are filled with exotic goods, and its palaces
are adorned with gold and jewels. Visitors from all over the world come to see
its splendor, and its residents bask in the glory of their city, proud to call
themselves citizens of Alhamad, the Shining City.