---
title: Anloeb
description: Dark god of the subterranian creatures
tags: ["religion"]
---

Anloeb, the subterranean goddess, is shrouded in mystery and intrigue. Her
priests and followers rarely emerge from their underground domains, and when
they do, it is seldom on peaceful terms. Surface-dwelling scholars know little
about her, as her adherents are often hunted by their own kind if they venture
above ground. Despite this secrecy, Anloeb's influence looms large over the dark
places of the world.

# Aspects and Worship

Anloeb is central to the monotheistic religion of the subterranean peoples, who
attribute various aspects to her. However, her strongest associations are with
power and conquest, reflecting the harsh and competitive cultures of those who
dwell in the darkness. These aspects dominate the worship practices and societal
structures of her followers, who see her as the ultimate embodiment of strength
and dominance.

## Influence and Reach

Anloeb's reach extends through the vast subterranean networks and dark caverns
that lie beneath the world's surface. These regions, often perilous and
inhospitable, are where her followers thrive. The cultures that worship Anloeb
are shaped by their environment, valuing strength, cunning, and resilience.
Their societies are often hierarchical, with power concentrated in the hands of
those who claim the goddess's favor.

## Encounters with the Surface

Encounters between Anloeb's followers and surface-dwellers are rare and usually
fraught with tension. When her adherents do emerge, it is often for purposes of
conquest, resource acquisition, or ritual hunts of sentient beings. These
interactions further the goddess's reputation for power and aggression,
cementing her image as a deity of domination.

# Origins and Speculations

As far as scholars can ascertain, Anloeb appears to be a younger deity, having
emerged _after_ the [Sundering](/pages/Sundering). This notion sparks
considerable debate among theologians and historians alike. The existence of a
post-Sundering deity suggests two intriguing possibilities: either the Sundering
was not as all-encompassing as once believed, or new gods can indeed be born
within its aftermath. Both scenarios challenge long-held beliefs about the
divine and the nature of the Sundering itself. If new gods can indeed emerge
within the bounds of the Sundering, what does this mean for the nature of
divinity and the cosmic order?