---
title: Kingdom of Corin
linkTitle: Corin
description: Verdant costal kingdom on the Lorimar Sea
tags: ['locations']
mapMarkers:
- group: states
  pos: 630, 413
---

Corin is a verdant coastal kingdom nestled between the [Lorimar
Sea](/pages/Lorimar-Sea) and the [Rookspine
Mountains](/pages/Rookspine-Mountains). This picturesque land is renowned for
its lush landscapes, which captivated the first human tribes migrating north
from the Lorimar Sea. While many continued their journey to settle in what is
now the [Empire of Narin](/pages/Narin), several smaller groups chose to remain,
giving rise to the Kingdom of Corin. Over time, these agricultural and fishing
settlements evolved into small fiefdoms, eventually coalescing into a federal
elective monarchy.

# Geography and Climate

{{< map target=584,375 zoom=0 offset=0.5 >}}

Corin's coastal regions are characterized by rolling hills, fertile plains, and
serene shores. To the northeast, the Rookspine Mountains rise majestically,
creating a natural barrier that has helped shape Corin's history and culture.
These rugged mountains are home to dense forests, crystal-clear rivers, and
abundant wildlife. Corin's location between the mountains and the Lorimar Sea helps
keep its climate mild, never getting too hot or cold. Corin's surplus of natural
resources has always been a boon to its people, who thrive off this rich land.

# History and Governance

The history of Corin is deeply intertwined with the early migrations of
humanity. As tribes moved north from the Lorimar Sea, many chose to stay in this
rich land. These early settlers established small, self-sufficient communities
that gradually grew into prosperous fiefdoms. The natural abundance of the land
allowed for a stable and thriving society, setting the foundation for Corin's
development.

Unlike many other kingdoms, Corin's monarchy is not hereditary in nature.  The
fiefdoms that emerged from the initial settlements maintained a degree of
autonomy, and the princes of these fiefdoms choose new monarchs from amongst
themselves, instead of through lineage.  This tradition of joint governance
among smaller fiefs fostered a strong sense of cooperation and communal duty in
the people of Corin, which remains a defining characteristic of the kingdom to
this day.

## Relations with Narin

Corin shares a long and tumultuous history with Narin, its powerful neighbor to
the northwest. The kingdom has been conquered twice by Narin, each time enduring
occupation and integrating with the larger empire. However, Corin's resilient
spirit and values have always driven it to reclaim its sovereignty. Currently,
Corin is nominally a vassal state of Narin, but many argue that the emperor's
influence is largely symbolic and that Corin operates with considerable
independence.