---
title: Eindonallan
description: Secluded city-state home of the Einir
tags: ['locations', 'cities']
mapMarkers:
- group: cities
  pos: 911.1875, 641.5
- group: states
  pos: 940, 641
---

Nestled in the heart of an ancient forest, Eindonallan is a secluded city-state,
the last remaining nation of the [Einir](/pages/Einir). Once the capital
of a vast and influential kingdom, Eindonallan now stands as a testament to the
resilience and enduring legacy of its inhabitants. Despite its tumultuous
history, the city continues to be a beacon of Einir culture, wisdom, and arcane
mastery.

{{< map target=915,600 zoom=1.25 alt="Illyria" >}}

# History

## The Golden Age of the Einir

In an era predating human civilization, Eindonallan was the flourishing capital
of a grand Einir kingdom. The Einir, known for their profound wisdom and magical
prowess, were sought after by emerging nations who either sought their counsel
or desired to form alliances as a mark of prestige. Eindonallan's influence
spread far and wide, establishing it as a center of knowledge and power.

## The Sundering and Seclusion

The [Sundering](/pages/Sundering), a cataclysmic event that reshaped the world
of Gradia, marked the decline of Einir's power. In the aftermath, the Einir used
their remaining magical abilities to seclude themselves, shrouding Eindonallan
from the eyes of outsiders. The once-great kingdom receded into legend,
remembered only in ancient lore as it transformed into a hidden city-state,
isolated yet enduring.

## The Battle of Eindonallan

In 912~IA~, Eindonallan was besieged by a coalition of subterranean armies who
sought the destruction of the city. The coalition forces employed a devastating
tactic to blot out the sun, setting the surrounding forests ablaze to shroud the
battle in darkness. The attack left the city in ruins and claimed the lives of
many Einir. This dark chapter in Eindonallan's history forged a new bond between
the Einir and the humans of [Dol Kor](/pages/Dol-Kor), a nearby town in
[Illyria](/pages/Illyria), which provided refuge for the displaced elves. This
alliance marked a turning point in Human-Einir relations, fostering a deep
connection between Eindonallan and Illyria that persists to this day.

## Rebuilding

For the past twenty-five years, Eindonallan has been undergoing a painstaking
reconstruction. While much of the city's former grandeur has been restored, the
scars of the attack are still visible, both in the landscape and in the hearts
of its people. The Einir have worked tirelessly to rebuild their homes, restore
their arcane libraries, and replant their sacred groves, striving to reclaim
their heritage while honoring their fallen.

# Culture

## Lore and Wisdom

Despite the Sundering sapping the Einir of much of their innate connection to
magic, Eindonallan remains a bastion of arcane knowledge and wisdom. The city's
libraries still contain many ancient tomes and scrolls, saved by Einir who
risked their lives during the Battle of Eindonallan. Scholars and mages from
across Gradia seek to visit Eindonallan, hoping to study under the tutelage of
its esteemed sages and to delve into its rich repository of mystical lore.

## Architectural Splendor

The architecture of Eindonallan reflects the elegance and artistry of the Einir.
Graceful spires, intricately carved stonework, and harmonious designs that blend
seamlessly with the natural environment are hallmarks of the city's aesthetic.
The central spire of the city, the tower that serves as the seat of their elder
council, seems almost impossibly engineered. Built in pre-Sundering times using
some now-lost magic, the spire stands taller than any modern stonework could,
and has survived even the Battle of Eindonallan mostly undamaged.