---
title: Einir
tags: ['peoples']
---

The Einir, a humanoid race with ancient roots, share a close kinship with the
[Alfir](/pages/Alfir). While they are generally slightly shorter and of lighter
builds than Humans, their resemblance to humans is more pronounced compared to
their southern cousins. Einir possess elongated, pointed ears and more angular
facial features, giving them a Fae-like appearance. Their skin and hair exhibit
a similar range of colors to humans, though vibrant and unusual hues are not
uncommon among them.

## Lifespan and the Sundering

In bygone eras, the Einir were renowned for their exceptionally long lifespans,
with many living over 800 years. This remarkable longevity allowed them to
accumulate vast wisdom and experience, making them venerable sages and guardians
of ancient knowledge. However, the [Sundering](/pages/Sundering) brought about
profound changes, especially for the Einir. Once long-lived, Einir now
experience lifespans rarely exceeding 250 years.

Additionally, where the Einir once had a deep innate connection to magic, the
sundering has all but broken that connection.

## Culture

Though many Einir hail from the illustrious city-state of
[Eindonallan](/pages/Eindonallan), their presence can be found all across
Gradia. The dispersal of the Einir has led to a rich tapestry of cultural
expressions for Einir, yet a shared sense of identity persists among them.

Many Einir pride themselves on their sophisticated culture, often considering
themselves more "civilized" than their Alfir cousins. This sense of refinement
is particularly evident in Eindonallan, where the pursuit of knowledge and
contemplation is highly valued. Einir society tends to places a strong emphasis
on learning, with many dedicating their lives to philosophical and intellectual
endeavors. Their long lives have historically allowed them to delve deeply into
these pursuits, contributing to a rich tradition of scholarship and
introspection.