---
title: Duchy of Greade
linkTitle: Greade
description: Industrious Duchy on the Bay of Kell
tags: ['locations']
mapMarkers:
- group: states
  pos: 960, 436
---

Nestled between the mountains and the [Bay of Kell](/pages/Bay-of-Kell) lies the
Duchy of Greade. This serene region is home to a stout, hardworking people who
value peace and stability above all else. Greade's citizens have cultivated a
reputation for preferring a quiet, industrious life.

In addition to agriculture, Greade is known for its skilled artisans and
craftsmen. Greadeans produce high-quality goods, from textiles and pottery to
metalwork and woodcraft. These products are highly valued both locally and
throughout the north, contributing to Greade's prosperity.

# Geography and Climate

{{< map target=950,428 zoom=0.95 offset=0.75 alt="Illyria" >}}

The Duchy of Greade is uniquely positioned between the northernmost end of the
[Rookspine Mountains](/pages/Rookspine-Mountains) to the south and the expansive
Bay of Kell to the north. This geographic location provides a varied landscape
of rolling hills, fertile valleys, and coastal plains. The climate is temperate,
with mild summers and cool winters, making it an ideal environment for
agriculture and fishing. The mountains offer protection and resources, while the
bay provides access to maritime trade and abundant seafood.

The capitol of Greade is [Zarakz](/pages/Zarakz), the largest trading port on
the Bay of Kell.

# History

## Conquest and Cultural Shift

Long ago, what is now the Duchy of Greade were the eastern lands of the
[Uzani](/pages/Uzan) people. In a bid for northward expansion - and one of the
bloodiest wars of the early imperial era - [Narin](/pages/Narin) conquered
Greade but failed to conquer the rest of Uzan. This brutal conflict left an
indelible mark on the Greadan psyche, leading to a profound cultural shift. In
the aftermath of the conquest, the people of Greade turned away from the path of
war, embracing a philosophy of hard work, peace, and neutrality. This approach
proved prosperous, allowing Greade to flourish as a part of the empire for
centuries.

## Independence

However, the past few decades have brought significant changes to Greade. In a
bold and covert move, Greade secretly aided [Illyria](/pages/Illyria) in their
bid for independence in 910~IA~. This alliance played a crucial role in
Illyria's success and, ultimately, led to Greade gaining its own freedom from
the Empire of Narin. The newly won independence has been met with mixed
reactions within Greade; while some celebrate their autonomy, others yearn for
the stability and security they enjoyed under imperial rule.