---
title: Kmekh
tags: ['peoples']
---

Stout, dense, and strong, the Kmekh /ˈkmeχ/ peoples of Gradia generally stand
between four and five feet in height, possessing a stockier build compared to
Humans or [Halflings](/pages/Halflings). Their hair colors are similar to those
of humans, though they tend to turn grey or white much earlier in their
lifespans.

# Culture and Lifestyle

The majority of Kmekh reside in their vast underground mountain cities within
the [Kvakhmir Mountains](/pages/Kvakhmir-Mountains), collectively known as the
[Nauglimir](/pages/Nauglimir). Despite the stereotype of being insular and
single-minded, the Kmekh are just as likely to wander and seek knowledge as any
other people. Their exceptional skills in navigating and living underground give
them an edge in environments that other races might find challenging.

Kmekh are often considered innate craftsmen, a reputation that stems from their
cultural values. Their society places a high premium on hard work and
craftsmanship, and these values are instilled in Kmekh children from an early
age. This cultural emphasis results in a population that excels in various
crafts, from metalwork to masonry, contributing to their esteemed status as
master artisans.

## Religion

Most Kmekh of the Nauglimir, and many beyond its borders, worship
[Zmix̂oda](/pages/Zmixoda), known as The Hammersmith. He is revered as the
creator of their kind and a symbol of their industrious spirit. Some non-Kmekh
scholars suggest that Zmix̂oda may be an aspect of the Underlord or a related
deity, a theory that many Kmekh find deeply insulting. To the Kmekh, Zmix̂oda is
a unique and vital figure, integral to their identity and heritage.

## Language

Most Kmekh speak [Kankhri][kh] as their native language, though there has been
an increasing trend with Kmekh children growing up beyond the Nauglimir and
never learning the language.

[kh]: https://languages.gradia.org/grammar.html?lang=kankhri