---
title: The Sundering
linkTitle: Sundering
aliases:
  - Cosmology
---

In the fifth century before 0~IA~, the trials of [Malat-ir](/pages/Malat-ir)
against the dark god [Naarel](/pages/Naarel) ended with the wizard creating the
_Sundering_, a planar region containing only the world of Gradia and small
shards of the surrounding planes of existence. Notably, the astral plane was
completely cut off - magical effects that involve the astral must instead use
another plane, usually the shadow plane.

## Magic

Another effect that the Sundering created was that the power and abundance of
magic in Gradia faded, dwindling to a tiny fraction of what it was within only a
decade. The Pilvevium is like a closed system; no new magical energy enters from
the outer planes of existance.

Magic has not completely disappeared from the world, however. But where once
magic had permeated everywhere, only a handful of natural sources remain. Magic
still works, but great works of magic now require a way to draw from one of
these natural sources.

## Elven Peoples

The [Einir](/pages/Einir) and [Alfir](/pages/Alfir), being tied to another plane
and drawing much of their essence from it, dwindled in both power and number
once the world was split from the other planes. Whereas beforehand all elven
peoples were nearly immortal and had at least some connection with magic, the
split cut off their innate magic and reduced elven lifespans down to a couple
centuries at best.

Different groups reacted differently to this sudden change. In the south, the
vast empire of the Alfir crumbled into balkanized fiefdoms within a decade, and
within a few centuries the Alfir lands were only a small fraction of their
former size. The Alfir became far more xenophobic and returned to a simpler life
and eventually to a more tribal social structure.

In the north, the great Einir kingdom of [Eindonallan](/pages/Eindonallan) had a
slightly more stable descent. Its population still dwindled, but the Einir,
already highly focused on academics, turned to wizardry to help bolster their
waning innate magics. Even the power of wizardry was waning, however, and by the
time of 0~IA~, Eindonallan was merely a city-state where there once had been a
great kingdom. The Einir used what remaining magic they could to hide their city
away, and recede from the outside world.